:Product: Forecast Discussion
:Issued: 2017 Sep 06 0030 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at moderate levels. Region 2673 (S09W30,
Dkc/beta-gamma-delta), produced several M-class flares, the largest of
which was an M4 flare at 05/0108 UTC. This region continued to show some
growth throughout the period, and remained a magnetically complex and
active sunspot region. Region 2674 (N14W14, Fhi/beta) was inactive for
the period despite its potential. The remaining regions were stable and
inactive as well.

Multiple WSA/Enlil model runs have converged on a mid-to-late day
arrival of the 04 Sep CME on day one (06 Sep). No other Earth-directed
CMEs were observed in available coronagraph imagery.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be at moderate to high levels over the
next three days (06-08 Sep), mostly due to the flare potential and
recent history of Region 2673. Radio blackouts reaching the R1-R2
(Minor-Moderate) levels are expected for the next three days (06-08
Sep), with a chance for R3 (Strong) radio blackouts.

Energetic Particles

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux reached high levels with a maximum
flux of 3,780 pfu observed at 05/1730 UTC. The greater than 10 MeV
proton flux reached S2 (Moderate) levels with a peak flux of 210 pfu at
05/1930 UTC.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at high
levels for the next three days (06-08 Sep). The greater than 10 MeV
proton flux is expected to continue at S2 (Moderate) levels over the
next two days (06-07 Sep) with a chance for S1 (Minor) levels on day
three (08 Sep).

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
The solar wind environment was enhanced at times due to lingering
effects from a polar-connected, positive polarity CH HSS. Solar wind
speeds began the period around 515 km/s, increased to 630 km/s, then
gradually decreased to around 475 km/s by the end of the day. Total
magnetic field strength was elevated early in the period between 7 and
10 nT before settling out around 5 nT by days end. Bz deflected
southward early in the period to -5 nT, then was mostly variable. Phi
angle was mostly in a positive orientation.

.Forecast...
The solar wind environment is expected to remain enhanced on days one
and two (06-07 Sep) due to impact from the 04 Sep CME. Elevated solar
wind parameters are expected into day three (08 Sep) with the onset of a
recurrent, negative polarity CH HSS, in addition to lingering CME
effects.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was mostly at quiet to unsettled levels with an
isolated active period at the start of the day.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to start off at quiet to unsettled
levels on day one (06 Sep). G3 (Strong) geomagnetic storm levels are
likely by mid-to-late day with the arrival of the 04 CME. G3 conditions
are again likely into day two (07 Sep) due to ongoing CME effects. Day
three (08 Sep) is expected to be at mostly active levels with a chance
for G1 (Minor) storm levels being reached due to the onset of a
recurrent, negative polarity CH HSS, and any residual CME effects.
